DOCS-10444 (#28755)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/automatic_instrumentation/single-step-apm/_index.md

---
## Overview

Single Step Instrumentation (SSI) automatically installs the Datadog SDKs with no additional configuration required, reducing onboarding time from days to minutes.

To learn more about how it works, see the [injector guide for Single Step Instrumentation][8].

## Instrument SDKs across applications

When you [install or update the Datadog Agent][1] with **APM Instrumentation** enabled, the Agent instruments your applications by loading the Datadog SDK into supported processes. This enables distributed tracing by capturing and sending trace data from your services without requiring code changes.

After instrumentation, you can optionally:
- [configure Unified Service Tags (USTs)](#configure-universal-service-tags)

> - [enable additional tracing-powered products](#enable-additional-apm-related-products), such as Continuous Profiler or Application Security Monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [enable additional tracing-powered products](#enable-sdk-dependent-products-and-features), such as Continuous Profiler or Application Security Monitoring
```
For the sake of consistency, it might be better to say "enable additional SDK-dependent products and features")?

Follow the relevant documentation to learn more about Single Step Instrumentation for your deployment type:

{{< partial name="apm/apm-single-step.html" >}} 

<br>

<div class="alert alert-info">To see requirements for compatible languages, operating systems, and architectures, see <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/trace_collection/automatic_instrumentation/single-step-apm/compatibility/">Single Step Instrumentation compatibility.</a></div>

> ## Configure Universal Service Tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Unified Service Tags
```
